# Mini-project development process

1. Build a helper function `name_to_number(name)` that converts the string `name` into a number between 0 and 4 as described above. This function should use a sequence of \color{red}{\verb|if|}if/\color{red}{\verb|elif|}elif/\color{red}{\verb|else|}else clauses. You can use conditions of the form \color{red}{\verb|name == 'paper'|}name==’paper’, etc. to distinguish the cases. To make debugging your code easier, we suggest including a final \color{red}{\verb|else|}else clause that catches cases when \color{red}{\verb|name|}name does not match any of the five correct input strings and prints an appropriate error message. You can test your implementation of \color{red}{\verb|name_to_number()|}name_to_number() using this name_to_number testing template. (Also available in the Code Clinic tips thread).
Next, you should build a second helper function \color{red}{\verb|number_to_name(number)|}number_to_name(number) that converts a number in the range 0 to 4 into its corresponding name as a string. Again, we suggest including a final \color{red}{\verb|else|}else clause that catches cases when \color{red}{\verb|number|}number is not in the correct range. You can test your implementation of \color{red}{\verb|number_to_name()|}number_to_name() using this number_to_name testing template.
Implement the first part of the main function \color{red}{\verb|rpsls(player_choice)|}rpsls(player_choice). Print out a blank line (to separate consecutive games) followed by a line with an appropriate message describing the player's choice. Then compute the number \color{red}{\verb|player_number|}player_number between 0 and 4 corresponding to the player's choice by calling the helper function \color{red}{\verb|name_to_number()|}name_to_number() using \color{red}{\verb|player_choice|}player_choice.
Implement the second part of \color{red}{\verb|rpsls()|}rpsls() that generates the computer's guess and prints out an appropriate message for that guess. In particular, compute a random number \color{red}{\verb|comp_number|}comp_number between 0 and 4 that corresponds to the computer's guess using the function \color{red}{\verb|random.randrange()|}random.randrange(). We suggest experimenting with \color{red}{\verb|randrange|}randrange in a separate CodeSkulptor window before deciding on how to call it to make sure that you do not accidently generate numbers in the wrong range. Then compute the name \color{red}{\verb|comp_choice|}comp_choice corresponding to the computer's number using the function \color{red}{\verb| number_to_name()|}number_to_name() and print an appropriate message with the computer's choice to the console.
Implement the last part of \color{red}{\verb|rpsls()|}rpsls() that determines and prints out the winner. Specifically, compute the difference between \color{red}{\verb|comp_number|}comp_number and \color{red}{\verb|player_number|}player_number taken modulo five. Then write an \color{red}{\verb|if/elif/else|}if/elif/else statement whose conditions test the various possible values of this difference and then prints an appropriate message concerning the winner. If you have trouble deriving the conditions for the clauses of this \color{red}{\verb|if/elif/else|}if/elif/else statement, we suggest reviewing the "RPSLS" video which describes a simple test for determine the winner of RPSLS.
This will be the only mini-project in the class that is not an interactive game. Since we have not yet learned enough to allow you to play the game interactively, you will simply call your \color{red}{\verb|rpsls|}rpsls function repeatedly in the program with different player choices. You will see that we have provided five such calls at the bottom of the template. Running your program repeatedly should generate different computer guesses and different winners each time. While you are testing, feel free to modify those calls, but make sure they are restored when you hand in your mini-project, as your peer assessors will expect them to be there.

The output of running your program should have the following form:



Here is a break down of the scoring:

2 pts — A valid CodeSkulptor URL was submitted. Give no credit if solution code was pasted into the submission field. Give 1 pt if an invalid CodeSkulptor URL was submitted.
2 pts — Program implements the function \color{red}{\verb|rpsls()|}rpsls() and the helper function \color{red}{\verb|name_to_number()|}name_to_number() with plausible code. Give partial credit of 1 pt if only the function \color{red}{\verb|rpsls()|}rpsls() has plausible code.
1 pt — Running program does not throw an error.
1 pt — Program prints blank lines between games.
2 pts — Program prints \color{red}{\verb|"Player chooses player_choice"|}"Playerchoosesplayer_choice" where \color{red}{\verb|player_choice|}player_choice is a string of the form \color{red}{\verb|"rock"|}"rock", \color{red}{\verb|"paper"|}"paper", \color{red}{\verb|"scissors"|}"scissors", \color{red}{\verb|"lizard"|}"lizard" or \color{red}{\verb|"Spock"|}"Spock". An example of a complete line of output is \color{red}{\verb|"Player chooses scissors"|}"Playerchoosesscissors". Give 1 pt if program prints out number instead of string.
2 pts — Program prints \color{red}{\verb|"Computer chooses comp_choice"|}"Computerchoosescomp_choice" where \color{red}{\verb|comp_choice|}comp_choice is a string of the form \color{red}{\verb|"rock", "paper", "scissors", "lizard"|}"rock","paper","scissors","lizard" or \color{red}{\verb|"Spock"|}"Spock". An example of a complete line of output is \color{red}{\verb|"Computer chooses scissors"|}"Computerchoosesscissors". Give 1 pt if program prints out number instead of string.
1 pt — Computer's guesses vary between five calls to \color{red}{\verb|rpsls()|}rpsls() in each run of the program.
1 pt — Computer's guesses vary between runs of the program.
3 pts — Program prints either \color{red}{\verb|"Player and computer tie!"|}"Playerandcomputertie!", \color{red}{\verb|"Player wins!"|}"Playerwins!" or \color{red}{\verb|"Computer wins!"|}"Computerwins!" to report outcome. (1 pt for each message.)
3 pts — Program chooses correct winner according to RPSLS rules. Please manually examine 5 cases for correctness. If all five cases are correct, award 3 pts; four cases correct award 2 pts; one to three cases correct award 1 pt; no cases correct award 0 pts.

